Germany will resume its cooperation with
anra that's the United Nations Agency
for Palestinian refugees in Gaza several
countries halted their funding
temporarily during an investigation into
the agency's staff Israel had accused
dozens of the agency's employees of
being involved in the October the 7th
Terror attacks more than a dozen donors
including the two largest ones the US
and Germany suspended their unre funding
as a result now the recent investigation
says that Israel has not provided
evidence that certain UNR employees were
members of terrorist
organizations earlier DW spoke with
Germany's development Minister about the
anra investigation she had this to say
about the agency's work that report
shows very clear that anra is uh able to
do the job here that it's not part of
Hamas that is separated from Hamas and I
think this report um we will analy this
analy anal this report in detail but the
first what we see is that this is very
important um report to to show that Anar
is doing a very good job
here Jonathan Fowler is the spokesperson
for the UN Agency for Palestinian
refugees anra welcome to DW Jonathan
thanks so much for your time today can
we begin with your reaction to the news
that Germany will now resume cooperation
with your organization
I mean this is of course a very very
positive development um and I do want to
stress that the Germany uh last month
had already come forward with fresh
funding of 45 million euros for our work
in the West Bank um Jordan Syria and
Lebanon um so what we're talking about
today specifically is a kind of
unlocking of the the remaining
suspension on funding for Gaza um which
at this critical moment of course given
the the the absolutely enormous scale of
the humanitarian crisis in Gaza is
absolutely essential did Germany and
other donor countries act too hastily
when they uh suspended payments to unra
without waiting uh for a thorough
examination of Israel's
allegations well well of course I mean
I'm not in a position to to sort of be
be sort of inside the room in terms of
the decision making but I mean what what
this did cause was was a huge risk of an
absolute unraveling of our operations in
in Gaza but also um across the rest of
the region and our agency of course is
the primary humanitarian agency in Gaza
but also working with Palestine refugees
across the region so the the decision
when it made I mean it looked like we
were we were basically going to have to
close up shop in February but because
we've had a number of returnees and
Germany of course is not the only
government which has listed suspen
lifted suspensions um we've been able
now to to sort of push our operations uh
kind of protected through to the end of
June and we the basically the the kind
of guillotine has been postponed over
and over over recent months that others
have come back but that doesn't mean
that the situation is perfect beyond
June okay I wanted to ask you Jonathan
um the independent investigation
concluded that while you have robust
measures in place to ensure the
neutrality of the organization there are
still neutrality issues uh what will the
organization do to address these
issues well absolutely I mean we we take
fully on board the the the outcomes of
of this investigation I mean this was an
independent review that in fact we had
asked for before allegations against a
dozen of our staff even emerged and it's
important to emphasize that so this was
something we were aware that we needed
to do um because we'd over the years
faced a number of um allegations against
you know our our neutrality of our staff
but the investigation did include that
we have the robust Frameworks in place
and in fact more robust than any other
other part of the UN system and many um
International NOS um but what we we we
we are um working on an action plan
currently to to take on board various
recommendations you know related to the
work of our staff unions for example um
or indeed you know how we deal with
donor governments our internal
governance on these issues um you know
an organization with 30,000 people are
functioning in a very very politicized
context which of course was flagged by
the the the Colona report um that's you
know it's inevitable that that things
won't be perfect um but I think you know
this this is a case more of of of the
glass being half full than half empty
when it comes to the outcome of this
review okay the US your most important
donor has decided not to fund unra for
another year um how will this affect you
how will you compensate for this
shortfall well this of course is
extremely challenging because um I mean
with the return of the number of donors
we we've reduced the the sort of
financial hit on our organization but um
yes indeed you know with the the
remaining suspensions of nine um member
states we're still looking at a 31% loss
of our income and that's
267 million do and and the United States
makes up around 80 n yeah 87% of that
that shortfall almost 90% um the uh the
Congressional decision to to to to
decline to fund unra until March of next
year is um is problematic we do need to
make up that shortfall but I do want to
emphasize we've had a ground swell of
support um so not just the returning
suspending member states but as soon as
the their suspensions were decisions
were made we faced a ground swell of
public support we raised record amounts
of money um from Individual and private
sector donors in the order of 50 million
we've had uh governments traditional
donor governments come forward with
extra exra money you know Spain Ireland
for example staunch supporters of our
agency um but we've also um had uh
non-traditional donors and the
government of Iraq for example came
forward with money so this doesn't make
up the shortfall but it does it it has
enabled us to reduce the dent but of
course the the issue of U us funding is
extremely extremely serious and we are
hoping that they will also make a
decision in our favor Jonathan Fowler
from unre Jonathan thank you so much for
your time to
today thank you